h2. talib-ruby

Ruby Wrapper for "ta-lib":http://ta-lib.org/

This project has been started by Timur Adigamov on "Rubyforge":http://rubyforge.org/projects/talib-ruby/,
but since it didn't build on my machine and wasn't complete i modified it slightly, et voila.

h3. Install and build instructions

h4. OSX

Install ta-lib from "MacPorts":http://www.macports.org/ports.php?by=name&substr=ta-lib:

bc. sudo port install ta-lib

Install the ruby wrapper talib_ruby:

bc. sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch PLATFORM" gem install talib_ruby -- --with-talib-include=ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_HEADERS  --with-talib-lib=ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_LIBS

* PLATFORM = [i386 | x86_64 | ...]
* ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_HEADERS = The path to the ta-lib header files (e.g. /opt/local/var/macports/software/ta-lib/0.4.0_0/opt/local/include/ta-lib)
* ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_LIBS = The path to the ta-lib lib files (e.g. /opt/local/var/macports/software/ta-lib/0.4.0_0/opt/local/lib)

h4. Windows

To install under Windows the ruby development kit is required to build the binary extensions. Download and install instructions can be found at "DevKit Github Page":https://github.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/wiki/Development-Kit.

Download and extract the ta-lib automake src tarball from "Ta-Lib":http://ta-lib.org/hdr_dw.html (This procedure was tested with ta-lib-0.4.0-src.tar.gz).

From the folder where the ruby devkit was installed double click on msys.bat. This will 

Navigate to the directory where ta-lib source was extracted (on my system it is '/c/users/mlamby/ta-lib-0.4.0-src')and type the following to build the library:

@  ./configure
  bc. make@

Install the ruby wrapper talib_ruby:

bc. gem install talib_ruby -- --with-talib-include=ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_HEADERS  --with-talib-lib=ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_LIBS

* ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_HEADERS = The path to the ta-lib header files (e.g. c:\users\mlamby\downloads\ta-lib-0.4.0-src\include)
* ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_TALIB_LIBS = The path to the ta-lib lib files (e.g. c:\users\mlamby\downloads\ta-lib-0.4.0-src\src\.libs)

Now ta-lib can be used by using _require 'talib_ruby'_
Works on Leopard and Snow Leopard, Windows XP and 7. Has not been tested on Vista.

h3. Example

Calculation of Moving Average (MA):

bc.. require 'rubygems'
require 'talib_ruby'

# init input data
a = Array.new
10.times { |i| a.push i.to_f }

10.times do |k|
    b = Array.new(10)
    l = TaLib::Function.new("MA")
    # setup input parameter
    l.in_real(0,a)
    # setup optional parameter
    l.opt_int(0,k+2)
    # setup output parameter
    l.out_real(0,b)
    lookback = l.lookback
    l.call(0,9)
    p "k=#{k+2}"
    p b
end

h3. Useful links

* "TA-Lib Forum":http://www.tadoc.org/forum/index.php?board=9.0
* "XML explanation":http://ta-lib.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/ta-lib/trunk/ta-lib/ta_func_api.xml?view=markup of all supported Functions
* "C/C++ API Documentation":http://ta-lib.org/d_api/d_api.html